Chapter 9

The enormous eye rolled madly then turned into a view screen which seemed to be playing some kind of reality show featuring a behemoth called Pinky. Pinky ran amok for a few seconds then the screen exploded in a cloud of small furry balls with teeth; teeth that ate their own fur to reveal a glowing white spaceship underneath. A spaceship so cool that it made other cool spaceships such as the Sirius All-Space Off-Worlder look about as cool as a cluster of pimples on the nose of a forty-year-old man who was riding a bicycle with stabilizers around his office during a presentation on more efficient ways to unblock sewage pipes.

Guide Note: This analogy works pretty well just about everywhere, except in the town of Shank near the famous Infinity Spools of Allosimanius Syneca. Shank is inhabited by Pshawrians, who are taught from infancy to defy expectations. In fact, anyone who meets expectations is given three chances and then hurled from the finger-shaped peaks of the Mooncliffs. In actuality, people rarely get three chances, because that’s what they expect. In Shank, a spotty forty-year-old man on a stabilized bike would be the epitome of unexpected coolness. The fact that the presentation was about sewage pipes would be seen as a nice touch, seeing as g on Allosimanius Syneca is only 1.2 metres per second squared and waste matter simply floats off into space. The gleaming white spaceship wobbled a bit then solidified with a noise like a huge slice of lemon colliding with a giant gold brick. A section of the fuselage fizzled like a glass of soda then disappeared altogether, revealing a tall, helmeted figure whose aura seemed to contain a choir of angels singing ‘Thor’ in divine harmony.

‘Hallelujah,’ whispered Hillman.

Buff Orpington sank to his knees, weeping.

9

The Tanngrísnir

Bowerick Wowbagger’s longship slipped out of dark space like an eel from a reef’s shadowy depths, its engines emitting jets of exotic blue flame that crystallized when they encountered real space. Inside the Tanngrísnir there was not a single passenger who had not been substantially altered by the journey.

This was partly the fault of the space itself, as the sleeve of dark matter is largely an emotional construct and can serve as an accelerant for feelings that may otherwise have taken years to develop. For a being of the light, gazing even for a moment into the heart of dark space has an effect equivalent to a dozen near-death experiences. It’s the Universe’s way of telling you to get on with your life. Which is a good thing if the feeling budding in a person’s heart is a good feeling. As the ship backed into Nano’s atmosphere then swung around in a lazy meander towards the larger of two settlements, scanning every atom of the planet as it did so, the passengers inside its amorphous hull were reeling with conflicting emotions that seemed to push their hearts against their ribs and swell their brains to bursting.

Trillian

Could I love him? Could I? Is it possible that after all this time I can just bump into a man in the middle of a planetary destruction and fall for him?

But he’s not a man, is he? Christ, girl, you don’t even know what he is. You don’t have the first clue about this Wowbagger guy or his physiology. What a hoot that would be on the wedding night. Wouldn’t mother’s ghost laugh then if your brand new husband expected you to lay a few eggs on the carpet for him to fertilize?

Ugh. No, it’s too much, I couldn’t. I can’t.

Why can’t you? You gave everything up for Zaphod and you didn’t love him. He was interesting, certainly, but you didn’t love him. And now you have a chance to be happy and you’re turning up your nose.

My nose. Arthur loved my nose. Maybe there’s still a chance for Arthur and me... It would certainly be tidy.

You don’t love Arthur. You never did and, anyway, he’s still utterly besotted with Fenchurch. And what about Random? She needs you now. You left her once before, remember? You promised that this life would be for your daughter.

But will denying my own happiness make my child happy?

That’s the way it generally works, isn’t it?

But I love him. I love him, Mum!

Who are you calling Mum? Get a grip on yourself, girl.

I can love two people, can’t I? That’s allowed.

Maybe, but Random comes first.

Random

Put me in a bloody tube, will they? I’ll show them. Mr Immortal thinks he’s immortal, does he? Maybe he should browse the Sub-Etha a little more. Maybe, if his computer wasn’t so busy making goo-goo eyes at my dad, it would have picked up on a very remote article on a very remote site that tells the story of Pyntolaga, the Six-fingered Immortal of Santraginus, who was cursed with immortality by an irradiated electronic muscle stimulation slimming belt, and how he was eventually killed.

So, Bowerick Wowbagger wants to die, does he? Well, what sort of an ingrate would I be if I didn’t help him on his way?

small voice: You were a politician. A loving wife. The President of the Galaxy... now you’re planning to help this person get himself killed?

I lost my husband and my job and my future. It’s time to start thinking about me. small voice: Fair enough. Kill him then.

Bowerick Wowbagger

Could it be love? Could it?

Come on, Bow Wow, that’s the dark matter talking.

No. I can handle my dark matter. I’ve been living in this ship for years. I think I actually love this woman. You see it all the time, in nearly every single movie I have ever watched: people making instant connections, love at first sight, the Thunderbolt.

making instant connections, love at first sight, the Thunderbolt.

This is not a movie. You should tune into a news channel once in a while, see how many love thunderbolts are featured.

It is love. It could be. Why shouldn’t it be? After all this time, don’t I deserve something? You deserve to die. Isn’t that what you’ve longed for all these years?

Yes, but only because there was nothing for me. Nothing but a computer on a stolen ship. Now there is something. Someone.

Don’t lose focus here. You have a real shot at getting yourself killed. Don’t blow it all over a mortal.

I was mortal once. They’re not so bad.

Oh, really? Who are you and what have you done with the real Bow Wowbagger? Because correct me if I’m wrong, but didn’t we spend the last several thousand years insulting mortals? Don’t you have a complete set of The Total Tosser’s Thesaurus?

Yes, but...

And... and haven’t you claimed to be in love before?

Yes, but that was different. I thought it was love but I see now it was just an absence of disgust. Trillian has qualities.

Trillian. If that is her real name.

Now you’re just nitpicking.

All I know is that for the first time in I don’t know how long you have a chance to be dead. Not a big chance, granted. But if that fool Beeblebrox comes through, then there is a chance at least. Are you prepared to risk all that because you’ve taken a fancy to a mortal?

Yes. If she will have me, I’ll risk it all. If not, back to Plan A.

Which is?

Insult everyone on the planet and try to get myself killed.

Amen to that.

Arthur

This is ridiculous. I have spent most of this incredible journey talking to the hardware. Actually, you’ve been talking to yourself. The computer dips into your memories and compiles appropriate responses from previous conversations. If you listen carefully, you might hear the blip where the sentences have been spliced together.

I know. I know. But it’s hard to tear oneself away. I lost Fenchurch once and it nearly killed me. Even now, after all this time, I still think about her constantly.

All this time? It hasn’t been that long.

I am counting my virtual life. I spent a lot of time on that beach drawing pictures of Fenchurch. I know. They were awful. We need to move on.

You mean until the Vogons destroy this new planet?

Or until I save it. I have saved planets before, you know.

I think we’re on our last life there, mate. How many more destroyed worlds can we possibly survive? None, that’s how many.

Wowbagger can shoo the Vogons. Or Thor, whoever wins. There’s an entire Universe out there and we are a part of it. I don’t want to spend the rest of our life playing mental footsie with a box of capacitors and chips.

I know. You’re right, but it’s safe here. Absolutely no one can find us, let alone threaten us with thermonuclear weapons.

So we stay here for ever.

No... I suppose not.

So what are we going to do?

Move on.

I’m not feeling it.

Move on!

Okay. Fenchurch forgotten?

Sure. Absolutely. Who-church?

That’s my boy.

tiny voice: Fenchurch. Never forget.

Ford

I can go for eight minutes without blinking. Eight minutes, surely that’s some kind of record? Not blinking is so relaxing. I was a little relaxed before I boarded this ship, but now I am positively comatose, or is that comma toes? Which would make sense because my toes do look like little commas, which is quite a scary thought for some reason.

Beer, beer, wonderful beer. The more you drink the more you fear.

Goosnargh! I’ve been a fool. I know what I have to do. I need to write something for the Guide about this ship in case the publishers ever manage to oust those Vogons. My goodness, it will be a sensation. How many mortals can have travelled inside the Tanngrísnir? I don’t know. Not many, I bet, and the next one to manage it will be pretty relieved to find a comforting and informative entry in The Hitchhiker’s Guide. Right. What to submit. Something concise, don’t give those bastard editors much to play with. But stylish. Something that says ‘Ford Prefect’ all over it and yet captures the essence of such a cool, golden ship. My last submission was a little wordy. So cut it down. Get straight to the issues. Immediately to the matter at hand, directly point bound. Relevance on the horizon, captain.

Ahah! I’ve got it. There is only one word that encapsulates both my spirit and that of this wonderful vehicle. One beloved term, equally popular among the old groans and the young grins. A collection of syllables as beautiful as it is useful:

Froody.

They gathered on the bridge to watch the descent towards the new blue planet.

Ford stepped close to a curved wall and it bubbled into transparency.

‘I wanted the wall to do that,’ said Ford, grinning. ‘I thought it and the ship did it.’ The view was undeniably spectacular and even Wowbagger took his eyes from Trillian’s profile for a moment to appreciate the expanse of waves, flecked with golden sunlight, flashing past below the prow.

‘It is... nice,’ he said in the tone of a Blaslessian parolee who has just had his taste buds returned to him after a twenty-year stretch. ‘Yes. Nice.’

Trillian wrapped her arms around his bicep. ‘Nice? It’s fabulous, spectacular. I thought you were supposed to have a way with words.’

‘Not the good ones,’ said Wowbagger, smiling. ‘I have had no need of them for some time, thanks to all those jumentous mortals. Present company excepted.’

Random brushed past, accidentally bashing Wowbagger with her elbow.

‘Most of the present company excepted.’

Random smiled sweetly. ‘I would just like to say, Mr Wowbagger, that I really hope you die today, just like you want.’

‘Random!’ said Trillian, shocked. ‘What a terrible thing to say. And anyway, it’s not going to happen. Zaphod Beeblebrox never followed through on a threat or a promise in his life.’ Wowbagger smiled down at her. ‘Don’t worry. It’s the dark space. People’s emotions get amplified; they say things they don’t mean. She’ll settle down.’

‘Don’t count on it,’ said Random, scowling.

But Trillian wasn’t listening. People’s emotions get amplified, she thought. They say things they don’t mean.

‘Oh my god,’ said the computer excitedly, suddenly sounding like a teenage fan girl. ‘It’s Thor. On the other side of the island. I’m picking up Thor, I don’t believe it. I wonder does he remember me?’

Wowbagger’s brow tightened. ‘Are you sure?’

‘Of course I’m sure, silly. I’ve got over a million matches on the facial software.’ ‘Don’t be cheeky, computer, just set us down.’

‘Where? Beside the Thunder God?’

Wowbagger turned away from Trillian. ‘No. Set us down here. I need time to think.’ Good, thought Trillian. I need time to think myself.

Good, thought Random. I need time for my special delivery to arrive.

Cong

‘Zaphod Beeblebrox,’ said Hillman, as though the name itself was a curse, which on several planets it had indeed become. ‘Zaphod feckin’ Beeblebrox.’

Zaphod was reclining on a sun lounger in the plaza, two boots off, three sleeves rolled up. ‘You keep saying that, Hillman. As though me being here is a bad thing instead of the solution to all your problems.’

‘The solution to all what problems?’

‘What problems do you have?’ said Zaphod equably.

Hillman drummed his fingers on the table, something he hoped the waitress would notice and for god’s sake come and take his order. He stopped in mid-drum.

‘Well, we have no waitresses for a start. They’re all down on the beach colony with the personal trainers. And they took all the booze.’

Zaphod reached for his boots. ‘Well, it’s been great chatting to you, Hillman. If you could just point me in the direction of this beach colony.’

‘It’s all your bloody fault, Zaphod. Everything was fine until the western township showed up. Tyropolis, can you believe that name? Their staff revolted even before ours did.’ He poked a finger at Zaphod. ‘Do you realize that some of the good people here are forced to do their own colonics? What kind of civilization is that?’

‘Every new society has teething problems. You need to work through them with diplomacy and alcohol.’

‘Teething problems? That nut job Preflux is a bit more than a teething problem.’ Zaphod tried to hold in a giggle, but it shot out his nose.

‘What’s so funny, Beeblebrox?’

‘Oh, nothing.’

‘No, please share. I insist.’

‘It’s just that you called Aseed Preflux a nut job.’

‘So what. He is a bloody nut job.’

‘If he is, so are you.’

Hillman frowned. ‘What’s that supposed to mean?’

‘Well, he is you and you are him. Don’t tell me you haven’t noticed?’

‘That’s a load of horse manure,’ said Hillman, but there was a plate of cold dread in his stomach that knew it was true.

‘The western township? Tyropolis? That’s you guys from another dimension. I made a bundle off you the first time, so I thought, hey, why not do this again. I was on my way for a third group when BOOM, here come the Vogons.’

‘So the Earth is gone?’

‘Utterly and for ever. Even Arkle Schmarkle and all of his horde, couldn’t put that planet together once more.’

‘What?’

‘It’s an old Betelgeusean nursery rhyme. Arkle Schmarkle was a little kid who glued eggs together after they fell off walls. Tragic ending.’

‘I see. Anyway, to get back to this planet: I am Aseed Preflux? I am that pompous, deluded moron? That’s what you’re saying?’

Zaphod snapped the fingers of his third hand, something that had taken him months to learn. ‘Badabingo. Well, you’re not him exactly. You’re a version of him from a couple of million Universes down the axis, which is why there are all the little differences. The name, of course. You have the paunch, he doesn’t. You dye your hair, he’s still naturally red. That sort of thing.’ Hillman didn’t even have the energy to protest the hair dye slur. It was one thing to know that there were an infinite number of alternate Hillman Hunters; it was quite another to be at war with one of them.

‘I can’t believe this,’ he spluttered eventually. ‘You set me up, Beeblebrox. You pitted me against myself.’

Zaphod slapped his own cheeks and chest in mock horror. ‘I set you up? Me? That’s preposteraneous. I was just trying to make a few bucks. You knew there would be other colonists, Hillman. It’s not my fault you ape descendants will fight with anyone, even versions of yourselves.’ Zaphod suddenly sat bolt upright. ‘Holy shankwursters! I’m right, aren’t I? I just made a valid point.’

Hillman fumed silently, tugging on his goatee. Beeblebrox did have a point. He had saved their lives and transported them to a new Eden. It was hardly his fault if the human race screwed it up all over again. Hillman glanced across the square to where Buff Orpington was acting like a kid on a sugar drip, running in circles around Thor, tongue hanging out, twirling the golf club. ‘The settlement has been falling apart, Zaphod,’ admitted Hillman. ‘I could really use a god.’ Zaphod tried to look surprised, as if this was not exactly where he’d hoped the conversation would go. ‘Well, I do have a god.’

‘Is that the real Thor? Really, is it?’

‘It really is and I am his manager.’

Hillman flapped his lips. ‘What? So even gods cost money now?’

‘Wake up, Hillman. Gods have always cost money. But I can do you a deal.’

‘Would we have exclusive rights?’

‘I couldn’t promise that. Thor is in the big league. A class-one deity. There are a lot of cultures who want to adore him.’

‘And is he omnipresent?’

‘No, but he’s pretty fast.’

Hillman thought about it. Having a god of Thor’s stature could get this planet back on the straight and narrow. Aseed Preflux’s wheel of cheese wouldn’t last long against a big hammer like Thor’s, and the staff might think twice about neglecting their duties if they had to answer to the God of Thunder.

‘When could he start?’

Something beeped in Zaphod’s pocket and he patted himself down until he located the tiny computer card that Wowbagger had given him.

‘Almost immediately,’ he said, reading the screen. ‘Thor just has one little bit of divine retribution to hand out. You guys might want to watch this, test drive the merchandise, so to speak. It’s going to be spectacular.’ He called across the square to the god: ‘Hey, Thor. Ready to go do the thing? The immortal has landed.’

‘Are you sure about this?’ said Thor, frowning suspiciously at Buff Orpington, who was trying to heft Mjöllnir. ‘I don’t know if I’m ready. Did you see this guy? Is he being sarcastic or does he really think I’m great? He wants to be a priest. He wants a robe. Is that what you want, boy, is it?’ Buff nodded his jowly head and stamped the grass.

‘Yeah,’ he panted. ‘Yeah, yeah, yeah.’

Tyropolis

Wowbagger’s longship touched down in a beautiful rolling meadow outside the settlement and instantly assumed the shape and texture of a grassy hillock. A nearby herd of Ameglian Major cows who had been arguing over who got to sacrifice themselves to the newcomers, cursed their luck then returned to tail-painting placards which protested the Tyromancers refusal to eat them. Wowbagger dissolved the hatch and the passengers set grateful feet on solid earth. ‘It’s really nice here,’ said Trillian. ‘Peaceful.’ At which point a hysterical cow thundered across the meadow and butted her in the chest, bellowing, ‘Eat me! Eat me!’

Trillian jumped away from the wet, hairy snout. ‘No. Ugh. I’m a... vegetarian.’

‘Vegetables!’ spat the cow. ‘What’s so special about them? Why do they get to have all the fun? Fibre and vitamins. So bloody what? I’ve got protein coming out my wazoo. Literally.’ Before the Tanngrísnir’s passengers could take another step, they were surrounded by a mob of angry cows.

‘We’re mad cows!’ they chorused. ‘We’re mad cows.’

Arthur laughed. ‘You know, that’s funny, because on Earth there was a disease...’

A brown cow sidled up to Arthur. ‘You’re not a vegetarian, are you, sir?’

‘Why, no, as a matter of fact.’

‘I bet you’d gobble down a lovely sirloin, sir, with a few fingerling potatoes and a half bottle of vino.’

Arthur patted his stomach. ‘I would, actually. That sounds delicious. An actual steak. Nothing replicated about that. You get what you ask for. Honest to goodness meat.’ There had been a time when the idea of animals bred to dream of slaughter had horrified Arthur, but now he found a spark of acceptance and optimism in his heart.

Dark matter, he thought. It won’t last.

‘You’ve read my mind, Arthur mate,’ said Ford. ‘I’m not usually in favour of devouring sentient beings, but these guys are persistent.’

With one foreleg, the cow ushered Arthur and Ford towards a wood-burning barbecue. ‘And how would sirs like their steak?’

‘Rare,’ said Ford. ‘So rare a vet with shock paddles could revive it.’

‘Medium for me, I think.’

The cow somehow managed to drape a napkin across its foreleg. ‘Excellent. And the wine?’ Arthur had no idea what the wine situation was on this new planet. It wasn’t as if they’d had time for vintages. ‘Surprise me.’

Wowbagger was feeling a little hemmed in by the other cows. He had never been overly fond of talking quadrupeds. It was a phobia he was struggling to deal with.

‘You creatures really should back up a little or I will be forced to fry you with my energy pistol.’ ‘Finally!’ cried one cow.

‘Maximum setting, please!’ begged another.

Trillian took his arm. ‘I know this species. They want to be eaten.’

‘I’m not going to eat them, but I may shoot them.’

Random was still emotional from the journey. ‘Why don’t you shoot them all, alien? Show my mother what you’re really like.’

Wowbagger felt Trillian squeeze his arm and his anxiety drained away.

He looked at her. How was that possible? How did you do that?

As previously discussed, the Universe has an aversion to tenderness and cannot allow it to exist for long, as every loving glance has to be balanced by a short sharp shock somewhere else in the cosmos. Sometimes not so short.

Guide Note: Bowerick Wowbagger or, as the H2G2 describes him, ‘that green frood with the hoopy ship who goes around insulting people’, has to this point shared three tender moments in real space with Trillian Astra, or as WooHoo magazine would dub her, ‘The Lucky Gal who Bagged the Bagger’, and each of these moments had to be paid for by other unfortunate individuals at antipodal points in the Universe. Glam Fodder, a planning officer on Alpha Centauri, had his finger nipped by a pygmy vole that had climbed into his monthly brown bag because the bag donor had decided to recycle his speef sandwich bag. Ursool Dypher, a marriage counsellor from the super-hot system of Hastromil, suffered a panic attack when her three o’clock married couple turned out to be the son and daughter she had given up for adoption as a younger being. Morty Grimm, the lead singer with the Hooloovoo super group Visible Spectrum, suffered third-degree diffusion when the lighting engineer accidentally put a blue gel on the singer’s solo spotlight.

This tender moment was torn asunder by the arrival of a golf cart convoy. It might have been a dramatic entrance had the leading cart actually managed to breach the enclosure gate, instead of becoming entangled in splintered planks.

Arthur’s cow friend spat a wad of cud. ‘Morons. And these are the people in charge.’ ‘Vegetarians?’ Arthur offered.

‘No. They love pigs. Can’t get enough of pigs. But us poor cows, for some reason we’re not on the menu. So thank goodness for you, sirs. Thank goodness for you.’

Aseed Preflux crawled from the wreckage of fence and cart.

‘Hey, Arthur,’ said Ford. ‘What do you get if you cross a fence with a cart?’

Arthur never had time to hazard a guess because they were set upon by Tyromancers. ‘Step away from that barbecue,’ Aseed ordered shrilly. ‘We need those cows.’

Ford hissed into Arthur’s ear: ‘I’ll stall them. You get Bessy on the barbecue.’ The cow overheard. ‘I resent that. We’re not all called Bessy, you know. As a matter of fact, Bessy is quite passé in sophisticated circles. Trisjam and Pollygrino are the names of choice this season.’

Aseed shouldered his way through the assembled cattle until he arrived, breathless and battered, before the newcomers.

‘Who is in charge here?’ he demanded to know.

Wowbagger stepped forward, avoiding anything that squelched or steamed.

‘That would be me. I am Bowerick Wowbagger, the ship’s captain.’

‘What ship? I don’t see any ship.’

‘That’s because it’s camouflaged, you bletcherous nincompoop.’

Aseed flushed. ‘What? There’s no call for that. How dare you?’

‘Now, that’s more like it,’ said Wowbagger, gratified. ‘Surprise and outrage. Reminds me why I used to do this job.’

‘Used to?’ said Trillian.

Wowbagger glanced at his shoes, which were still reasonably clean. ‘Lately, it’s lost its appeal.’ Aseed’s courage blossomed as the other colonists began to show up, wondering what all the commotion was about.

‘Sorry to interrupt your tender moment...’
 - On a cruise liner near Barnard’s Star, the ship’s doctor sneezed and stabbed himself in the knee with a Motox hypodermic. The knee was put on a strict water diet for two days, in spite of all its moaning."

‘... but what is your business here, Wowbagger?’

‘I have come to drop these humans off with their own kind and I was going to insult everyone, but now I don’t think I’ll bother.’

Aseed perked up a little. ‘These people are our own kind? They are Tyromancers?’ Wowbagger’s chin jerked. ‘Tyromancers? You people are Tyromancers? I don’t believe it!’ Aseed’s upswing in perkiness levelled off. ‘Don’t tell me: you don’t believe in the Cheese. You think it’s all in my head.’

‘No. I actually know the Cheese. I haven’t seen old Cheesy in for ever.’

Preflux dropped to his knees. Something squelched and another something cracked and steamed. ‘Y-you know the Cheese? You have been in His exalted presence?’

‘Exalted? Who told you that?’

‘The Cheese Lord Himself, in my visions.’

Wowbagger nodded. ‘He’s still doing the dream bit. Some things never change. Find an empty brain and slip yourself in, that’s always been Cheesy’s modus operandi. I’ve been down this god route before: a long time ago I hired Cheesy to kill me. He tried with some kind of cheese dip. It didn’t work, obviously, but I’ve been lactose intolerant ever since.’

‘Did you bring Edamnation down upon us?’

‘Edamnation? That’s hilarious. Really? No. Come on. You can’t expect people not to laugh if you insist on using theological terms like that. If you’re talking about the big ball of cheese over the other settlement, I think you’ll find that was another spaceship rolling into a normality zone.’ ‘Not Edamnation?’

‘I doubt it. In fairness to Cheesy, he might be a junior god, but he’s not great on projection. The last I heard he was studying for his Middle Grade divinity exams, and seeing as I haven’t seen any Holy Cheese calendars around, I am guessing he failed.’

‘Me too,’ said a cow. ‘Because he’s a loser, just like you, Preflux.’

‘Shut it, cow, or so help me...’

The cow spat. ‘What are you going to do? Not eat me?’

‘That’s right. I won’t eat you and I won’t eat your entire family. Wherever they hide, I’ll find them and not eat a single bite.’

The cow was cowed. ‘This is not over, Preflux,’ he muttered.

Aseed’s phone rang and he took a brief call, glancing back along the road towards the tunnel. ‘So, you’re a representative of the Cheese, Wowbagger?’

Wowbagger frowned. ‘I wouldn’t say representative. I know him a little. We had a few beers.’ Aseed persisted. ‘You are a friend, then. A champion, if you like.’

‘An acquaintance at best.’

‘It’s just that from what my insider tells me, Hunter has got himself a real god.’ ‘Ah.’

‘And he’s on the way over here.’

‘I see. And you’d like me to represent the Cheese.’

‘Would you? That would be fab.’ Aseed made the triangle sign.

‘What’s that?’

‘It’s a cheese triangle. Appease the Cheese. It’s kind of a slogan I made up.’

Wowbagger laughed. ‘Don’t move. I have to get a photo of that for Cheesy, he will be so thrilled.’

Aseed’s triangle wavered. ‘He can’t see us? The Cheese is not all around us?’

‘Cheesy? It’s all he can do to hook himself up to a dish and send out dairy dreams. And I’ll tell you something else: he loves beef and cheese. Especially meals that combine beef and cheese.’ Aseed’s hands dropped to his sides. ‘All this time we have been protecting the cheese vessels...’ The air crackled suddenly and Arthur felt the hair standing on his forearms. ‘I feel as though I should be running away. Thor might remember me.’

In the sky, to the east, a small storm cloud churned just above the tree line. Photogenic lightning bolts shot from its belly at regular intervals and there seemed to be a huge being riding the bolts. Wowbagger smiled wryly. ‘Beeblebrox actually got the big guy himself. I don’t believe it.’ ‘Believe it,’ said Ford. ‘You called him Fat Arse, remember?’

Trillian shielded her eyes with a forearm, squinting to catch a glimpse of the Thunder God. ‘He is such a show-off. A big hammer isn’t everything, you know. Maybe it’s all a big light show. Maybe he doesn’t even want to fight.’

A statement like this virtually guarantees a contradictory and, considering the characters involved, melodramatic event, and Trillian as a journalist should have known better than to utter it. Guide Note: There is a theory, postulated by Schick Brithaus, the controversial bone doctor from pre! telepathy Kakrafoon Kappa, which states that the Universe is built on uncertainty and that a definitive statement/action creates a momentary energy vacuum into which flows a diametrically opposing statement/action. Famous vacuum-inducing statements include:

Surely that’s not going to fit in there?

And:

I am sick of betting the same numbers every week. They are never going to come up. And:

We are a peaceful people. Not even the Silastic Armorfiends of Striterax would want to pick a fight with us. And:

You look gorgeous in that sweater, Felix. There is no way anyone is going to call you a freak and throw you in a dumple composter.

And:

Maybe it’s all a big light show. Maybe he doesn’t even want to fight.

Sub-atomic beings heard the whoosh of energy suction, and into the vacuum flowed a massive
